Spiritual food is a gift from God, and so is our ability to read it in printed form or
to enjoy audio and video publications.
For the deaf, however, that same spiritual food is often out of reach.
To help us understand the challenges that most deaf people face, we've invited Brother
Bobby Dunbar to join us.
He serves in translation services at World Headquarters and has spent over 30 years serving
in the Sign Language field.
Welcome Bobby, we're happy to have you with us.
Thank you.
First question for you, it's a personal one.
What was your first language?
Both of my parents were deaf, so I grew up using Sign Language at home.
You could say it was my first language and English as a second language for me.
In the early days before there were Sign Language congregations, how were the spiritual
needs of the deaf cared for?
Our organization actually has a long history with deaf people.
As far back as 1915, Brother John Gillespie, an anointed pilgrim brother, was seen signing
songs for deaf people at a convention in the United States.
And since then, for many, many years, there's been interpreting at the meetings and assemblies.
And where brothers didn't know Sign Language at times, they even wrote notes for the deaf
brothers to help them understand what was going on during the program.
We do indeed appreciate those early signers, because I know they helped greatly when there
were no Sign Language congregations.
Where was the first Sign Language congregation formed?
And how many Sign Language congregations are there worldwide, including groups?
In 1976, Korea was the first branch to establish a Sign Language congregation.
And now there are more than 4,000 congregations in groups that conduct their meetings in Sign
Language.
That's remarkable.
Would you please give us an idea of what the organization has accomplished down through
the years in order to assist deaf people to come to a knowledge of the truth?
Our website, which contains videos in Sign Language, Bible-based videos, in more than 80
Sign Languages, make Bible truths available to deaf people.
Many of these 80 Sign Languages have the watchtower available every month.
Some of these Sign Languages actually have Bible books available.
And this has been a huge blessing to our deaf brothers and sisters.
In addition to this, the organization has provided an app for mobile devices that make
these videos very accessible in American Sign Language, and soon this app will be made
available to all the other 80 Sign Languages, so that they can carry around with them a
whole video library in a mobile phone or an tablet.
That's remarkable.
But now some may ask, since most deaf people can see, why do they need videos with Sign
Language?
Why can't they just read the publications?
While it's true that some deaf people read very well, the vast majority of deaf people
really struggle to understand what they read and print it for.
To give you an idea of the challenge that a person who is born deaf, the challenge that
he faces and learning to read well.
Just imagine I put you in a glass, soundproof booth, and I'm on the outside with a pencil
and paper, and I'm trying to teach you to read and write fluently in Greek or Chinese.
How far are you going to get?
I would get nowhere.
You see, learning a language really depends much on hearing it.
Just think of how a child learns language.
He hears it first for many years, then he begins speaking it, and once he's fluent at
speaking the language, then he learns that these little black squiggles on the page represent
the sounds and the words that he already knows.
But for deaf people, Sign Language used in our publications and at our meetings allows
them to learn and to flourish spiritually, to study, to have a meaningful ministry, to
participate in giving talks at meetings and conventions, and to become good teachers
of others.
That's remarkable.
But can Sign Language really teach what is found in the Bible?
Can it convey the understanding of the Scriptures?
For example, what's taught or what's spoken of in the Book of Revelation?
Sign Languages are actually very rich languages, and they excel at telling stories about people
and conveying emotions.
Actually, the Book of Revelation is very easy in Sign Language because Revelation is so
visual, and so the Bible comes alive in Sign Language.
Would you like to see some examples?
Oh, yes.
For example, we have the woman who approached Jesus and touched the friends of his garment,
and then we see his reaction, the blind man who was healed and regained his sight, the
beast of Revelation throwing down the harlot and having a rafter in your own eye.
I could even understand some of those video presentations.
Of course, since I already know about the accounts, but it's true, they're very powerful.
Some in the congregations, the hearing congregations may be wondering, what can they do to assist
in getting the good news to deaf people everywhere?
If they meet a deaf person in the ministry or anywhere else, they can always direct them
to our website, and there's a good possibility that we have a video there in their Sign Language.
They can also direct the interest to the local Sign Language congregation or group.
One final question, Bobby, how do you personally feel about the progress that you've seen
in the Sign Language field worldwide?
I used to wonder how the good news was going to reach deaf people in places like Russia,
China, and India, but one by one, Jehovah has removed obstacles.
And so, for example, today, there are more than 3,500 Jehovah's Witnesses who use Russian Sign Language
and worldwide, there are more than 24,000 deaf Jehovah's Witnesses.
We see all of this as a fulfillment of Bible prophecy and as an evidence of Jehovah's blessing.
Thank you very much, Bobby, for giving us such insight into the world of the deaf
and also the way in which the good news is being carried to them.